# database-project
Database project

Project Details
# Step 1
Design a database to hold the following information. (*) Create an ER diagram and design your database tables and schema using a Draw.io extension in VSCode. Get this approved before moving on.
# Step 2
Create a containerised PSQL database (empty to start with). Create a containerised database abstraction layer in a language / framework of your choice (empty to start with). Ensure to include swagger docs for testing.
# Step 3
Create the tables and pre-populate the database with some initial data upon container start. Ask me for a copy of the initial data required, the data is purposely not broken down into the schema to enable the you to design the schema from scratch without it being pre-defined / my design exposed. Ensure this can be run on a fresh machine and create the correct database automatically. Ensure the database is persistent so only add the pre-populated data if necessary. Write scripts that can be accessed via the cli to refresh the database as needed. Ensure you can connect to the database via the cli. You'll need to exec into the container first and then run some commands to connect to the database. You should be able to run some sql queries to see the data in the tables, ie "SELECT * FROM ;".
# Step 4
Create a CRUD REST API using your database abstraction layer - but do not use an ORM. Connect to the database directly in your code and run SQL queries to extract the correct data. Ensure you use parameterised queries to mitigate against sql injection. Ensure that for any data containing foreign keys, the foreign key data is also returned within the same query / data row.
# Step 5
Given the following questions, design and create some extra REST endpoints and write the associated database queries to obtain the correct data. (#) DO NOT USE CHATGPT, this is supposed to be an opportunity for learning!
# Step 6
Given the following questions, write the associated database queries to obtain the correct data. (##) DO NOT USE CHATGPT, this is supposed to be an opportunity for learning!
# Info
(*) Database information: A vehicle needs to record certain data about itself, including it's name, brand, height, maximum speed, a list of vulnerabilities and a list of capabilities. All brands, vulnerabilities and capabilities can be common amongst multiple vehicles. A driver needs to record certain data about itself, including it's name, employee number and employee start date. A scenario can be created and needs to record certain data about itself, including it's name, a description, the predicted weather and the start time. Any number of the same type of vehicle can be added into a scenario, these instances need to record an assigned driver and a rego number. The business rules of the application need to ensure that each driver can only be added into a particular scenario once, however they can be added to multiple scenarios. Each week, driver data is uploaded into the system recording how many km the driver has driven on each day of the week in a particular scenario and whether they were wearing their seatbelt.
(#) Extra queries: (Verify answers manually) How many drivers drove in the week starting 13 Jan for Mission Pizza Delivery How many km were driven in the week starting 13 Jan for Mission Pizza Delivery How many seatbelt violations were there in the week starting 13 Jan for Mission Pizza Delivery How many km were driven without a seatbelt in the week starting 13 Jan for Mission Pizza Delivery How many Toyotas drove in the week starting 13 Jan for Mission Pizza Delivery How many km were driven by Toyotas in the week starting 13 Jan for Mission Pizza Delivery How many drivers with the letter 'A' in their name drove in the week starting 13 Jan for Mission Pizza Delivery How many drivers drove per week in Jan for Mission Pizza Delivery How many km were driven per week in Jan for Mission Pizza Delivery
(##) Extra queries: (Verify answers manually) List all drivers and dates where the driver drove more than their average daily km amount over all scenarios List all drivers and their km whose total driving kms is over 650km per scenario over all scenarios List all drivers who have driven more than 25 times per scenario across all scenarios List all drivers and their category based on total driving km per scenario. Categories - > 650 = High, > 350 = Medium, >= 0 Low Find any drivers who have never driven Read about inner, outer, left and right joins and create some of your own queries to test your understanding.
